Over the last lectures and the last assignment, we split up our app into multiple components and
now we got a decent looking app where we can add our favorite places.
Now what if we actually want to remove a place though? Let's say by clicking on a place, we want to get
rid of it. Now right
now if you click on the places, obviously nothing happens,
now let's try a first possible solution,
let's go to our place list component where we have the list items,
let's say if we click a list item,
so let's go into that, into our list item component.
If we essentially click on that view,
so anywhere on that list item, we want to do something. For that, let's add an onPress property to that view
here and there, let's say we want to fire props on item pressed, any prop name you want. Now in the place list
which is where we use our list item, there
we can now add this prop to the list item because we just added it to it and therefore we can react
to it,
this should now occur whenever we press the list item in the list item component and here, we could execute
an arrow function where we simply throw an alert, item pressed Id: and then output the index
of the item which we also used as a key here.
So I just split this up over multiple lines, this is the line I just added.
Let's see if that works,
let's save this,
notice that my javascript hook here is still running so the app should still get updated and I will even reload
it to be really sure that it works.
If I now re-add Munich,
nothing happens if I click this, right?
The reason is by default, your views text and so on aren't touchable,
you can't register onPress on any component you want,
that's not like it works on the web where you can register on click on a div, on a span, whatever you
want
and even on the web, it's not like the default behavior, every html element simply has a couple of properties
and events you can listen to and the click event happens to be present on pretty much all html elements.
On react native it's the same, every react native component has its own set of properties and events
and the view component doesn't happen to have an onPress property or event.
You can always confirm this in the documentation,
if you go to components and you search for the view component there, if you click on it, there you can scroll
down and you will see that as you go over that, you get a lot of properties you can use but actually
got no onPress property.
To be honest, it got some touch related properties,
all these on responder things are related to touching but since manually connecting to this isn't straightforward
and you would have to do a lot of heavy lifting, react native gives you some nice wrapper components which
you can wrap around any component you want if you want to react to touch events on it.
These components are all called touchable something, touchable like this is the simplest one,
so I import touchable from react native in my list item component and I will now wrap my view with
touchable, like this
Now on touchable,
we can register onPress,
it does expose this,
you can again go back to documentation and have a look at the touchable components you see here.
Now touchable is actually the base component,
I'll come back to the components you should really use in a second.
So that's touchable,
now if we save this and we go back to the application,
if I now enter my component there, you see we get an error.
The reason for this is that touchable is basically a parent class from which multiple subclasses inherit,
for example touchable without feedback,
so let's replace touchable with touchable without feedback and save the list item.
Let's now try this again,
let's reload our app here, add Munich and touch it
and now you see I get this alert and if I add Munich again and click on that, you'll see the ID is a different
one. And the same for Android, the app is just stuck but
if I reload manually, I can add it there too
and also click there to get the alert. So touchable without feedback basically allows us to register touch
events on the element
it wraps and you must only have one child element, not adjacent ones.
This typically is a view or often is a view but theoretically, it could also just be a text, it doesn't have
to be a view. Now touchable without feedback is named like this because you get no visual feedback
when touching,
if you inspect its documentation, you'll see all the properties you can set to determine how long you
actually have to press to trigger certain events
and then you see the events, like onLongPress, an alternative to onPress or when the press starts, when
it finishes
and so on. So touchable without feedback doesn't give us feedback,
we also have touchable highlight,
let's try this out. Let's replace touchable without feedback with touchable highlight, let's save the
file
and now if I click an item, you see that once I click it, it actually gets darker and here also the
margin below it gets really dark, really black which is just just how react styles this behind the scenes.
The margin counts towards the object and it basically paints the entire object in my way darker and white
just becomes black,
therefore it looks like this.
So now we at least get a feedback, what we can also use is touchable opacity, touchable opacity doesn't
change the background color but the opacity.
Now you see that clicking it basically reduces the opacity,
so we get this feedback when we touch it and the same by the way of course on Android.
Now on Android, you might also want to have this ripple effect
and for that you can use touchable native feedback, so we can use that.
If we now save this and we go back to Android, you'll see we get the ripple effect
and on the right, on iOS, you see it's not supported there.
This actually is a component you may only use on Android and in the later section, I will show you how
you can find out on which device you're running on so that you can render this on Android
and an alternative on iOS.
For now I will simply revert to touchable opacity because I think that looked the nicest and it works
on both platforms.
So all these touchable classes have the same events,
they just do different things visually.
Sometimes you want the without feedback one, sometimes you want the opacity, well
choose whichever one you like.
Here I'll go with opacity
and now we got a nice feedback.
This by the way is also how you can create your own buttons and to be honest, it's just how this button
here was created,
it's just in the end a text or maybe a view with a text inside of it wrapped with a touchable component
and then that view inside of it is styled like a button. Voila, you're done, that's your finished button.
And this is how you can create your own buttons or any other touchable element you want,
keep in mind, touchable opacity and so on,
these are the elements which you use if you want to react to some touch events.